Working in IT is more than just a job.
It's a career path. Research shows that
the field of IT support is a launchpad
for future career growth and better
wages.
In fact, a study on the subject was
recently conducted by the Harvard
Business School Accenture and Burning
Glass entitled Bridge the Gap.
It found that among today's
middle-skilled jobs which require
training but not a formal college
degree, IT support offers clear pathways
to prosperity. We saw this phenomenon
play out here at Google, in our IT
support program. Those who push
themselves to learn how to code in
Python typically saw strong career
growth.
They built skills that are critical to
accessing higher level positions in the
IT field, and after honing those skills
through hard work and determination,
they advanced into more technical IT
support specialists, systems
administrators, technical solutions
engineers, and even site reliability
engineers. The common thread across all
of these roles is knowing how to write
code to solve problems and automate
solutions.
By expanding your toolbox to include
coding skills, you open a window into
the world of systems management that
can lead you towards more advanced
technical roles down the line.
Python in particular is having a huge
surgence.
According to the 2019 Stack Overflow
Developer Survey, Python is the coding
language most people want to learn.
The second most loved by those who
already know it and the fourth most
popular overall. So why take this
program to learn how to code in Python?
Well, first it's geared towards people
who are already in or aspiring to be in
the field of IT. Maybe you're thinking
bigger about your current IT role and
want to work towards managing
operations at scale, or maybe you're
just starting out and looking to break
into the IT industry.
Perhaps you've taken our IT Support
Professional Certificate program on
Coursera already, or you have
equivalent IT support knowledge with
basic computing skills, like working
with files and directories, familiarity
with networking concepts, and
understanding how to install software on
your computer. In any case, this
program is tailor-made for you.
Second, this program offers three
hands-on methods of teaching coding and
Python and automation, code blocks,
Jupyter notebooks, and Qwiklabs.
Third, we've assembled an awesome group
of Googlers who will serve as your
instructors in each course.
They all started their careers in IT
support then learned programming and
moved onto more technical roles like
me.
We can't wait to share our stories with
you on how we use Python in our
day-to-day. Oh and hey, I should
probably introduce myself.
My name is Christine Rafla, and I'm a
Systems Administrator at Google.
I will be your instructor in this
course.
This program has been entirely designed
and developed by Google and we even
filmed each course at different cool
Google spaces.
It will introduce you to the Python
programming language with a special
focus on how this language applies to
automating tasks in the world of IT
systems support and administration.
I'm super excited to be here with you.
When I was younger, I had no idea that
careers in IT even existed.
There are a lot of reasons I wanted to
participate in the certificate program.
But one of my biggest motivations is
that I want to see more women
represented in the industry.
I remember going to a System
Administration Summit where there were
hundreds of men and about three women
that were sysadmins.
A lot has changed since then but
there's still so much we can do to bring
new ideas and representation into the
IT field.
That's why I want to share my knowledge
with as many people as possible.
I love my job and I love the people I
work with because they make it easy to
ask for help and offer their guidance.
This type of support network allows our
team and ultimately our industry to be
more successful. I understand from
experience that it can feel pretty
intimidating and maybe even a bit scary
to learn a coding language.
Just remember, everyone started where
you are right now with the first
command, the first script, and of
course, the first of many errors.
When I started out in my career, I
strived to get everything perfectly
right the first time I tried it.
But that actually slowed down my
progress.
So don't be afraid to make mistakes, it
will give you a leg up.
So let's get down to it.
What's ahead? The program begins with a
crash course in Python where you will
learn to write simple programs and
understand their role in automation.
Next, we'll get more hands-on focus on
how Python interacts with the operating
system. After that, we'll cover how to
use Git and GitHub to manage versions of
your code. Then we will focus on
troubleshooting and debugging techniques
to find and solve the root cause of
problems in IT infrastructure.
The next course covers automating at
scale where you will learn to deploy
configuration management on a fleet of
either physical or virtual machines
running in the Cloud. Last up, we will
bring all this knowledge together and
complete a final project designed to
solve tasks that you might encounter in
real-world IT settings.
Bonus, you can post your projects to
GitHub to show off your fancy new skills
to employers or friends or both.
That was a lot to rattle off.
Are you excited or what?
Now I'd like to quickly introduce you
to my fellow instructors who you will
get to meet along the way. Hey, my name
is Roger Martinez.
I'm a Linux System Administrator, and
I'll be your instructor in the course on
using Python's interacts with an
operating system.
Hi. I'm Kenny Sulma, and I'll be your
guide in the course about using Git and
GitHub to manage versions of your code.
Hi there. I'm Amanda Ballas, and I'll
be teaching you about troubleshooting
and debugging. Hey, I'm Phelan
Vendeville, and in my course, we'll
learn about Automation at scale using
Configuration Management and the Cloud.
Thanks everyone. This all-star team was
brought together to guide you on your
adventures in coding. You're in very
good hands.
Okay, I think that's everything.
Let's get ready to learn some new
skills and maybe even have some laughs
along the way. I'll see you in the next
video.